after an alaskan town is plunged into
darkness for a month it is attacked by a
bloodthirsty gang of vampires
welcome to total recaps
today we will explain a 2007 action
horror titled 30 days of night take a
seat and enjoy
at the start of the film we observe a
guy gazing at a ship anchored near the
beach
winter has arrived in barrow alaska
this is a month-long period during which
the sun does not rise
evan olson the sheriff of barrow and his
buddy billy kitka inspect a snow drift
of burned satellite phones
now the community is cut off from the
outside world stella evan's wife is a
firefighter in alaska
she is in town for the day but has not
informed evan due to their strained
relationship
she is involved in an accident while
attempting to catch a flight home
with no other option she contacts evan
for assistance evan assigns billy to
assist stella
evan also receives word from the police
station that one of john reese's snow
dogs has been murdered evan investigates
and discovers that dogs have been
brutally stabbed meanwhile billy
transports stella to the airport but the
last flight departs before she arrives
after a month the airport will reopen
evan visits the police station and meets
his younger brother jake olson
helen his grandma also works there
she informs him of vandalism occurring
at the utiliter he meets his pals carter
and wilson in the utility
wilson's helicopter has been wrecked
evan becomes aware that someone is
attempting to isolate him from all
methods of contact with the outside
world
meanwhile the town's electrical manager
is hard at work
he becomes aware of outside sounds
as gus walks outdoors he is surrounded
by numerous individuals they slowly
assassinate him and scythe in his blood
the newcomers it turns out are really
vampires
they have meticulously prepared the
following 30 days assault on barrow the
guy from the film's opening appears at a
restaurant requesting raw meat and booze
when the waitress refuses to comply with
his demands he attempts to assault her
evan and stella are also present
as evan attempts to apprehend the guy he
becomes more aggressive and evan
captures him evan and stella accompany
the guy to the station
evan confines him to his cell
somewhere else three refinery employees
are going home from work when one of
them is abruptly dragged into a dark
alley by a vampire after a few seconds
their friends bloodied corpses placed in
front of them
the girl flees leaving her companion to
gaze at the corpse back at the station
evan questions the odd guy but he
remains silent
eventually the electronics in the
station will cease to function
the mysterious guy then warns evan to
take cover because they are approaching
immediately thereafter the town's power
is cut out and everything becomes pitch
black
evan pays a visit to gus's office to
inquire about the power
when he arrives he notices a blood stain
on the snow outside he goes down the
path to discover the head of gus ripped
off from the body
he returns immediately and advises the
residents of the city to remain in their
houses when a vampire breaks
unexpectedly john and his wife ally are
in their homes
he grabs ally in seconds and rushes away
john rushes after her but he doesn't
succeed in saving her wife
meanwhile the stranger assaults jake
back at the station evan walks in and
shoots his arm at the perfect moment
evan believes that the guy knows about
the killer of gus but the man reveals
nothing
after that evan and stella began
searching for the assassins
they discover something unusual in their
path and exit their vehicle
stella notices something via her
binoculars and instructs evan to enter
the vehicle
a vampire pursues and climbs on top of
her vehicle while driving
stella manages to get him out of the car
and they are escaping they are puzzled
as they travel and see numerous vehicles
on fire on the side of the road
they get a call from the station and
helen begs for assistance on the other
end
when they arrive the station is in a
state of disarray jake and helen have
vanished but the stranger remains within
the jail
he requests that evan assassinate him
but does not give any more details
finally we glimpse the vampires faces
marlow is their leader
he communicates in a strange tongue and
directs the others to murder everyone
following instructions the vampires
begin murdering everyone who stands in
their path
evan and stella immediately returned to
the diner from earlier to conduct an
investigation
jake and the other survivors are also
present
helen on the other hand was assassinated
by one of them
evan leads everyone to the attic of a
neighboring home
while the others hide he instilled a go
in search of weapons however they are
assaulted by vampires once again they
turn evan's vehicle over and attempt to
eject stella beau brower comes to their
rescue and drives his vehicle at the
vampires evan and stella make their way
back to the home in brower's vehicle
they are hiding in the attic when they
hear the cries of people being murdered
outside
after a few days they want to visit a
shop to replenish their food supply they
agree to remain in the attic for a few
days and then relocate to the utility
when the opportunity presents itself
meanwhile marlow approaches the guy from
earlier and breaks his head to death in
the station
they decide to sleep in turns in the
attic ration their food and plot their
next move later they stay concealed in
the attic for six days
they see a girl crying for assistance
outdoors on the sixth day
when evan notices the vampires on
rooftops staring at the girl he knows it
is a trap evan attempts to rescue her
but is forced to watch as the vampires
torment and kill the girl
evan attempts to assist jon but he
instead assaults him
john became a vampire when his blood
became contaminated as he was attempting
to rescue his wife
when he realizes there is no way out he
uses an axe to sever john's skull
evan returns to the attic and passes out
wilson's father suffers from dementia
and goes outside to look for his dead
wife
wilson leaves the house to look for him
evan regains consciousness as a result
of the commotion and stella informs him
of what has occurred a vampire enters
the home
the vampire is on the verge of capturing
them when wilson's cries divert his
attention
wilson is then killed by the vampire
after many days there is no food left in
the attic they resolve to dash to the
shop the next time a hail storm strikes
the next day a blizzard hit
they gather food and supplies as they
reach the shop they then see a little
child licking blood and it then attacks
carter but jack kills the little monster
they are unable to escape since the
storm has already passed
they decide to go to the police
station's utility room where they will
be secure
jake remembers of his grandmother's uv
light which she used to cultivate plants
evan chooses to go to his grandmother's
home in order to kill them with the uv
light while the others flee to the
station
he runs and vampires follow him
others flee to the police station
meanwhile evan is getting ready to use
the uv light
marlo directs his vampire lover iris to
find evan
however when iris attempts to burst
through the glass evan fires the uv beam
directly into her face scorching her
evan runs and vampires follow him brower
then drives the excavator into a
building and convinces all the vampires
to enter
he then explodes igniting himself
evan arrives safely to the police
station
he discovers that carter has been bitten
by a vampire and he kills him as he
requested so
they now have three more days until the
sunrise
they suddenly see someone from the home
opposite attempting to communicate with
them they are taken aback to find billy
present and they take him to their place
when they arrive they find that everyone
else has departed they think everyone
has left to the utility so they go there
as well
on their way they try to save a kid from
a vampire and they scatter because of
that evan makes his way to the utilities
and discovers stella and billy are still
missing
billy arrives followed by a vampire who
attacks them but they managed to kill
him
billy has been bitten by a vampire and
is on the verge of transforming into one
as a result evan uses an axe to sever
billy's skull
next it is the last day of the night
period
through a window evan observes the
vampires congregating
marla directs the others to set fire to
the whole village
just as stella responds and forms evan
that she is sheltering under a
snow-covered vehicle she and the young
child become too cold to live
evan sees the vehicle but the vampires
have already destroyed the town's oil
pipes the oil gradually covers the
roadways and makes its way towards the
vehicle
the vampires start the fire which
gradually consumes the whole village
evan then extracts some of billy's blood
and injects it into himself
the survivors stare at him and he
transforms into a vampire evan then
attacks marlow while they are distracted
jake instructs stella to flee via
walkie-talkie evan eventually rams his
hand through marlo's skull and kills him
and the remaining vampires flee
the light finally rises evan and stella
enjoy the dawn
the film concludes with sunshine falling
over evan who slowly dies in stella's
arms
thank you for watching if you want to
see more make sure to subscribe and turn
on notifications
see you later